README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
<img src="docs/_static/banner.png" width="400">
</h1><br>
A python package for accessing and analyzing Formula 1 results,
schedules, timing data and telemetry.

## Main Features

- Access to F1 timing data, telemetry, sessions results and more
- Full support for the Ergast compatible [jolpica-f1](https://github.com/jolpica/jolpica-f1/blob/main/docs/README.md) API to access current and
  historical F1 data
- All data is provided in the form of extended Pandas DataFrames to make
  working with the data easy while having powerful tools available
- Adds custom functions to the Pandas objects specifically to make working
  with F1 data quick and simple
- Integration with Matplotlib to facilitate data visualization
- Implements caching for all API requests to speed up your scripts


## Installation

It is recommended to install FastF1 using `pip`:

```commandline
pip install fastf1
```

Alternatively, a wheel or a source distribution can be downloaded from Pypi.

You can also install using `conda`:

```commandline
conda install -c conda-forge fastf1
```

#### Installation in Pyodide, JupyterLite and other WASM-based environments

FastF1 should be mostly compatible with Pyodide and other WASM-based 
environments, although this is not extensively tested. Currently, the 
installation and usage require some additional steps. You can find more 
information and a guide in
[this external repository](https://github.com/f1datajunkie/jupyterlite-fastf1)
and the discussion in [this issue](https://github.com/theOehrly/Fast-F1/issues/667).

### Third-party packages

- R package that wraps FastF1: https://cran.r-project.org/package=f1dataR

Third-party packages are not directly related to the FastF1 project. Questions 
and suggestions regarding these packages need to be directed at their 
respective maintainers.

## Documentation

The official documentation can be found here:
[docs.fastf1.dev](https://docs.fastf1.dev)


## Supporting the Project

If you want to support the continuous development of FastF1, you can sponsor me
on GitHub or buy me a coffee.

https://github.com/sponsors/theOehrly

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/fastf1" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-orange.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="41" width="174"></a>


## Notice

FastF1 and this website are unofficial and are not associated in any way with
the Formula 1 companies. F1, FORMULA ONE, FORMULA 1, FIA FORMULA ONE WORLD
CHAMPIONSHIP, GRAND PRIX and related marks are trade marks of Formula One
Licensing B.V.

## Web Frontend

This repository includes a small FastAPI based web application that lets you
load historical race data, fetch practice lap times and display a demo live
timing stream. To start the
service using Docker run:

```bash
docker compose up --build
```

The UI will be available at http://localhost:8000.

Commit message:

Expand lap time API documentation

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
<img src="docs/_static/banner.png" width="400">
</h1><br>
A python package for accessing and analyzing Formula 1 results,
schedules, timing data and telemetry.

## Main Features

- Access to F1 timing data, telemetry, sessions results and more
- Full support for the Ergast compatible [jolpica-f1](https://github.com/jolpica/jolpica-f1/blob/main/docs/README.md) API to access current and
  historical F1 data
- All data is provided in the form of extended Pandas DataFrames to make
  working with the data easy while having powerful tools available
- Adds custom functions to the Pandas objects specifically to make working
  with F1 data quick and simple
- Integration with Matplotlib to facilitate data visualization
- Implements caching for all API requests to speed up your scripts


## Installation

It is recommended to install FastF1 using `pip`:

```commandline
pip install fastf1
```

Alternatively, a wheel or a source distribution can be downloaded from Pypi.

You can also install using `conda`:

```commandline
conda install -c conda-forge fastf1
```

#### Installation in Pyodide, JupyterLite and other WASM-based environments

FastF1 should be mostly compatible with Pyodide and other WASM-based 
environments, although this is not extensively tested. Currently, the 
installation and usage require some additional steps. You can find more 
information and a guide in
[this external repository](https://github.com/f1datajunkie/jupyterlite-fastf1)
and the discussion in [this issue](https://github.com/theOehrly/Fast-F1/issues/667).

### Third-party packages

- R package that wraps FastF1: https://cran.r-project.org/package=f1dataR

Third-party packages are not directly related to the FastF1 project. Questions 
and suggestions regarding these packages need to be directed at their 
respective maintainers.

## Documentation

The official documentation can be found here:
[docs.fastf1.dev](https://docs.fastf1.dev)


## Supporting the Project

If you want to support the continuous development of FastF1, you can sponsor me
on GitHub or buy me a coffee.

https://github.com/sponsors/theOehrly

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/fastf1" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-orange.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="41" width="174"></a>


## Notice

FastF1 and this website are unofficial and are not associated in any way with
the Formula 1 companies. F1, FORMULA ONE, FORMULA 1, FIA FORMULA ONE WORLD
CHAMPIONSHIP, GRAND PRIX and related marks are trade marks of Formula One
Licensing B.V.

## Web Frontend

This repository includes a small FastAPI based web application that lets you
load historical race data and display a demo live timing stream. To start the
service using Docker run:

```bash
docker compose up --build
```

The UI will be available at http://localhost:8000.

## Lap Time API

The lap time endpoint is now provided as its own FastAPI application located in
`lap_time_api`. The API can be started independently using Uvicorn:

```bash
uvicorn lap_time_api.main:app --reload
```

This separation allows the lap time API to run without any of the additional
functionality used by the demo web frontend. Whenever the endpoint is queried,
the loaded lap data is automatically stored under `lap_time_api/data/` for
future reference.

The service can also be started using Docker compose which builds the
`lap-time-api` service defined in `docker-compose.yml`:

```bash
docker compose up --build lap-time-api
```

See [`lap_time_api/README.md`](lap_time_api/README.md) for additional details.
